1..Stormdancer

Jay Kristoff

Jay Kristoff transports the steampunk genre from Victorian London's
 oft-trodden streets to feudal Japan. In a world brimming with magical
 beasts, strange technologies, and dark conspiracies, a young woman 
sent on a seemingly impossible quest must find her way home and outwit 
the Shogun who never intended for her to return.  
2..The Hobbit
BY J.R.R.Tolkien

A great modern classic and the prelude to THE LORD OF THE RINGS. 
Bilbo Baggins is a hobbit who enjoys a comfortable, unambitious life,
 rarely traveling any farther than his pantry or cellar. But his
 contentment is disturbed when the wizard Gandalf and a company of
 dwarves arrive on his doorstep one day to whisk him away on an 
adventure. They have launched a plot to raid the treasure hoard
 guarded by Smaug the Magnificent, a large and very dangerous dragon.

3..Midst Toil and Tribulation (Safehold Series #6) [NOOK Book] 
byDavid Weber 
After centuries of stasis, the island kingdom of Charis began to 
defy the edicts of the Church of God Awaiting—egged on, some say,
 by the mysterious warrior-monk Merlin Athawes. Now, in the wars and 
intrigues that have cascaded from Charis's declaration of independence,
 the populous Republic of Siddermark is sliding into chaos. Vicar 
Clytahn of the Church of God at harvest time. King Cayleb of Charis,
 his queen Sharleyan, and Merlin Arthawes will have their hands full
 trying to stave off wholesale starvation in Siddermark while at the 
same time shipping in enough land combat units to fend off the 
"volunteers" from the Church's Temple Lands.
4..   
     A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire #1) [NOOK Book] 
byGeorge R. R. Martin

Here is the first volume in George R. R. Martin’s magnificent cycle of 
novels that includes A Clash of Kings and A Storm of Swords.
 As a whole, this series comprises a genuine masterpiece of modern 
fantasy, bringing together the best the genre has to offer. Magic,
 mystery, intrigue, romance, and adventure fill these pages and 
transport us to a world unlike any we have ever experienced .



5..Deadlocked (Sookie Stackhouse / Southern Vampire Series #12) 
byCharlaine Harris 


It’s vampire politics as usual around the town of Bon Temps, but never before have they hit so close to Sookie’s heart…

Growing up with telepathic abilities, Sookie Stackhouse realized early on there were things she’d rather not know. And now that she’s an adult, she also realizes that some things she knows about, she’d rather not see—like Eric Northman feeding off another woman. A younger one.

There’s a thing or two she’d like to say about that, but she has to keep quiet—Felipe de Castro, the Vampire King of Louisiana (and Arkansas and Nevada), is in town. It’s the worst possible time for a human body to show up in Eric’s front yard—especially the body of the woman whose blood he just drank.

6..
A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire #2) [NOOK Book] 
byGeorge R. R. Martin 

In this thrilling sequel to A Game of Thrones, George R. R. Martin has created a work of unsurpassed vision, power, and imagination. A Clash of Kings transports us to a world of revelry and revenge, wizardry and warfare unlike any we have ever experienced.
 
A comet the color of blood and flame cuts across the sky. And from the ancient citadel of Dragonstone to the forbidding shores of Winterfell, chaos reigns. Six factions struggle for control of a divided land and the Iron Throne of the Seven Kingdoms, preparing to stake their claims through tempest, turmoil, and war.
7..
A Perfect Blood (Rachel Morgan Series #10)
 by: Kim Harrison
Ritually murdered corpses are appearing across Cincinnati, terrifying amalgams of human and other.

Pulled in by the FIB to help investigate, former witch-turned-day-walking demon Rachel Morgan soon realizes a horrifying truth: others want to create their own demons, and to do so they need her blood.

She’s faced vampires, witches, werewolves, demons, and more—but this time Rachel’s toughest challenge might be humanity itself.


8..
The Blinding Knife (Lightbringer Series #2)[NOOK Book]
 by: Brent Weeks
  
Gavin Guile is dying. 

He'd thought he had five years left--now he has less than one.
 With fifty thousand refugees, a bastard son, and an ex-fiancée who
 may have learned his darkest secret, Gavin has problems on every side.
 All magic in the world is running wild and threatens to destroy the
 Seven Satrapies. Worst of all, the old gods are being reborn, and
 their army of color wights is unstoppable. The only salvation may be 
the brother whose freedom and life Gavin stole sixteen years ago.
9..
Star Wars The Old Republic #3 : Revan
 by: Drew Karpyshyn
 There’s something out there:
a juggernaut of evil bearing down to crush the Republic—
unless one lone Jedi, shunned and reviled, can stop it.

Hero, traitor, conqueror, villain, savior—the man called Revan has
 been all of these. He left Coruscant a Jedi, on a mission to defeat 
the Mandalorians. He returned a Sith disciple, bent on destroying the 
Republic. The Jedi Council gave Revan his life back, but the price of
 redemption was the loss of his memories. All that’s left are nightmar
es—and deep, abiding fear. What happened beyond the Outer Rim that 
Revan can’t quite remember or entirely forget? One thing he’s certain
 of: Something dark is plotting to destroy the very existence of the
 Republic. With no idea how to identify the threat, let alone stop it,
 Revan may be doomed to fail. For he’s never faced a more powerful and
 diabolic enemy. But only death can stop him from trying


10..    
     Abraham Lincoln Vampire Hunter [NOOK Book] 
bySeth Grahame-Smith 

Indiana, 1818. Moonlight falls through the dense woods that surround a one-room cabin, where a nine-year-old Abraham Lincoln kneels at his suffering mother's bedside. She's been stricken with something the old-timers call "Milk Sickness."

"My baby boy..." she whispers before dying.

Only later will the grieving Abe learn that his mother's fatal affliction was actually the work of a vampire.

When the truth becomes known to young Lincoln, he writes in his journal, "henceforth my life shall be one of rigorous study and devotion. I shall become a master of mind and body. And this mastery shall have but one purpose..." Gifted with his legendary height, strength, and skill with an ax, Abe sets out on a path of vengeance that will lead him all the way to the White House 