1.Frozen Heat (Nikki Heat Series #4)

Richard Castle

In this thrilling follow-up to ''Heat Rises,'' a Jane Doe's gruesome killing launches NYPD Homicide Detective Nikki Heat on a dangerous and emotional investigation that rekindles a haunting, decades-old cold case: her own mother's death. Special limited time offer: Save $10 on Frozen Heat when you buy the Castle Season 4 DVD set. New Season of Castle starts on 9/24/12 on ABC!

2.Robert B.Parker
By Ace Atkins
When fourteen-year-old Mattie Sullivan asks Spenser to
 look into her mother’s murder, he’s not convinced by her
 claim that the wrong man was convicted. Mattie is street-smart,
 wise beyond her years, and now left to care for her younger
 siblings and an alcoholic grandmother in a dilapidated apartment 
in South Boston. But her need for closure and her determination to
 make things right hit Spenser where he lives.
 
As Spenser becomes more involved, he thinks that Mattie 
may be onto something after all. And he’s going to need
 the help of his friend Hawk to find peace for Mattie—a job
 that’s more dangerous than he ever thought.




3.The Maltese Falcon

Dashiell Hammett

Prose as hard as the falcon itself. Effortless cool on every page. Characters so vivid and original you can't imagine them existing before Dashiell Hammett conjured them up. And at the center of it, the "blonde Satan" himself, Sam Spade, a smart, slick, heartless son of a bitch with a code navigating his way through a world of smart, slick heartless sons of bitches without one. 

4.The Black Dahlia (L.A. Quartet #1)

James Ellroy

Along with the Black Dahlia I have to list the rest of the L. A. Quartet: The Big Nowhere, L.A. Confidential, and White Jazz. I know it's four books, but to me it's just one big brilliant mess of an epic. The first three are fiery, unparalleled fever dreams of obsession and corruption during a post-war noir scape. The fourth leaves a bit to be desired. But taken as a whole, they are a balls-to-the-wall gutter symphony. James Ellroy showed us that when gargantuan ambition meets gargantuan talent, the very idea of "genre" is exposed as a ridiculously limited word.

5.Black Cherry Blues (Dave Robicheaux Series #3)

James Lee Burke

Twenty-something years after I read this, I can still quote prose from it. I've never read a crime novel with such gorgeous muscular writing. But it's the characters and the sense of hope trying to break through against so much loss and doom that stick with you even more. James Lee Burke's gone on to write arguably the finest male detective series in crime fiction, but this--the third of the lot--was the first I read and it sucked the breath right out of me. 

6.The Talented Mr. Ripley

Patricia Highsmith

Icy, sinister, heartless-and that's the book, not just the psychopath, Tom Ripley, at the center of it. And yet...what a poignant and sometimes heartbreaking examination of exile-from emotion, from love, from the opportunities that seem available only to the upper class and shut to the rest of us. Tom's fatal attraction to Dickie doesn't just represent a man who wants to make love to another man; it represents a man who wants to make love as that other man. Tom's sad and horrific quest is to become Dickie. All the carnage that ensues stems from this impossible goal.

7.The Death of Sweet Mister

Daniel Woodrell

Daniel Woodrell is one of the best novelists alive. This, his heartbreaking ode to shattered innocence amongst white trash criminals in the Ozarks, is as fine an evocation of ruptured childhood as any ever written, and that includes Lord of the Flies.

8.King Suckerman

George Pelecanos

George Pelecanos gave us this revved up ode to muscle cars, 8-tracks, drive-in movies, and the swelter of DC in the summer of '76. This was pulp fiction for my generation, those of us who'd been little kids when Vietnam ended, Nixon bailed, Blaxploitation flowered and fell, Jaws took over the multiplex, and disco came spinning in to wipe out just about anything interesting. Pelecanos's two heroes run afoul of some really bad, bad ex-cons and the blistering action drives headlong toward an armed Bicentennial showdown as apocryphal as the gunfight at the OK Corral. 

9.Unknown Man #89

Elmore Leonard

It's hard to pick one Elmore Leonard novel because nobody I can think of changed the genre in the last 50 years as completely as he did. He wrote in the American idiom with an ear so tuned to the lower class it sang street poetry from start to finish. This is the one, however, that made me realize a crime novel could be more than just a crime novel as Leonard slid in some low-key but profound passages about alcoholism and the way one's life can get broken before a person realizes its too late to go back and heal it. 



10.The Cocktail Waitress

James M. Cain

The lost last novel of noir master James M. Cain, author of Mildred Pierce and The Postman Always Rings Twice, finally sees the light of day. When a woman takes a demeaning job to make ends meet, she encounters two men, one with the cash she needs, the other with the good looks she can't resist. 

11.The Last Good Kiss (C.W. Sughrue Series #1)

James Crumley

The Rosetta Stone of modern American crime fiction. Took its primary influences--The Long Goodbye and On the Road--and improved on them. Fashioned an unrivaled and luminous masterpiece out of road trips, drinking, the loss of '60s idealism, male myopia in regards to women, and the never ending search for home
12.V is for vengeance
By Sue grafton

Private detective Kinsey Millhone feels a bit out of place in Nordstrom’s lingerie department, but she’s entirely in her element when she puts a stop to a brazen shoplifting spree. For her trouble she nearly gets run over in the parking lot by one of the fleeing thieves—and later learns that the one who didn’t get away has been found dead in an apparent suicide. But Audrey Vance’s grieving fiancé suspects murder and hires Kinsey to investigate—in a case that will reveal a big story behind a small crime, and lead her into a web that connects a shadowy “private banker,” an angry trophy wife, a spoiled kid with a spiraling addiction, and a brutal killer without a conscience…
 